Hi, in this lesson,
you're going to learn how to use functions
to implement what is called steganography.
Hiding data in an image or
other digital artifact like an audio file,
a software program, or
any file of zeros and ones.
Because steganography is a bit larger
of a task than previous problems
you have solved.
It's a great idea to break
the code down into functions.
As you progress through this lesson,
you'll see some examples where pieces of
code are abstracted out
into separate functions.
To simplify the entire solution and
to avoid repetition of code.
The idea behind steganography
is to take an image,
like this image of sprinter Usain Bolt.
And hide data like
another image inside it.
Altering the numerical values of the
pixels of Usain Bolt to encode the hidden
image.
The key to steganography is to hide the
data in such a way that nobody can easily
tell you've altered the original image.
This image on the right is the result
of hiding a secret message in
the first image.
Can you tell that it has been altered?
If you look really closely,
you can see some differences in
the shading of the background.
However, if you were to just look
at the second image by itself,
there is nothing suspicious.
It just looks like
a picture of Usain Bolt.
This idea has been around for
a long time, predating computers.
Sending an undetected message has
been important throughout history.
One important modern use
is to avoid censorship
imposed by oppressive governments.
You can hide any digital
information in an image.
You could, for example,
hide a text or HTML file in an image.
However, that would take
a bit more math and
a deeper understanding of
how everything is a number.
To keep things simple at first,
you'll work with hiding an image
in another image of the same size.
When you are finished with this lesson,
you'll be able to find hidden
meaning in the universe.
That is, we're going to walk you
through not only the concepts,
but also the codes to do
steganographic hiding.
Then you will write the code to extract
the hidden message from an image.
For example, you could take
this picture of a galaxy and
extract the message that
we hid inside of it.
Okay, so how do you actually do this?
You already know that pixels have red,
green and
blue components which
numerically represent the color.
Is there a big difference between a red
value of 240 and a red value of 255?
They are numerically different,
but if you look at them,
the two of them are pretty similar.
The fact that you can't easily tell
the difference when you change
the numerical value slightly is
the key to hiding data in an image.
You can store the hidden data in the least
significant digits of the color value.
And not see much change
in the resulting color.
The least significant digits
are like the ones and
tens places in a three digit number.
So you could hide a 15 in
240 by changing 240 to 255.
To do this,
you're going to need a bit of math.
Don't worry, it's just multiplication,
division and addition.
You just have to put them
together the right way.
To understand how to do this math,
we're going to start with decimal.
The base ten number
system you use everyday.
We'll explain the concepts in base ten.
Then learn about binary,
the base two number system that
the computer uses to store numbers.
All the principles will be the same
in base two as they are in base ten.
You will just need to use powers
of two instead of powers of ten.
To see this idea in the familiar base ten.
Suppose that the values for
the red, green and
blue went from 0 to 9999
instead of 0 to 255.
This gives each component of
the color 4 decimal digits.
Now, suppose you want to hide this
red pixel with the RGB values shown.
Red = 8274, Green = 0 and Blue = 1098.
In this blue pixel with
RGB values of Red = 3568,
Green = 5686 and Blue = 7450.
We'll put the result here on the right.
For the red, you want to take the most
significant two digits of the pixel you
want to hide the data in,
which is the blue pixel.
And use them as the most significant
two digits of the result.
Then you want to take the most significant
two digits of the pixel you want to hide,
the red pixel.
And use them as the least significant
two digits of the result.
Notice that 3582 is
pretty similar to 3568.
It will look almost the same.
But you've changed it slightly so
that it stores the secret information
in its least significant digits.
Now, you do the same thing for green.
Taking the two most significant
digits from this blue pixel.
And combining them with the most
significant two digits from this
red pixel.
Again, 5600 is pretty similar to 5686.
Now, you do the same thing for
the blue component.
Combining the most significant digits
from the two pixels' blue components.
The resulting number, 7410 is again
quite similar to the original 7450.
If you look at the resulting
color of this pixel,
it's pretty hard to tell the difference
between it and the original blue pixel.
But as you'll see,
we've hidden a red pixel inside it.
Now that the information is hidden,
how would you extract the secret?
You know that you want the least
significant two digits of this pixel's red
to be the most significant
two digits of the hidden and
soon to be extracted pixel's red.
So we want 82 to be the most significant
digits of the R or red value.
But what should the least
significant digits be?
It doesn't really matter too much,
so we'll just pick 0.
Then, you do the same thing for
green, and the same thing for blue.
If you look at the resulting color,
it is this shade of red.
That shade of red is pretty close to
the original color that we wanted to hide.
Even though you don't get
the exact color back out,
the extracted image will
look pretty similar.
So now you know the big idea.
Steganography is hiding
data in other data.
In particular, you're going to do this
with hiding one image in another.
Now you understand the basic
math that is involved in it,
taking digits from each number and
combining them.
However, to implement this in code,
you are going to need to learn
a little bit about binary.
The base two number
system the computer uses.
Which is why the color values go
from 0 to 255 instead of the 0 to
9999 that we just worked with.